judges you know these hearings are a
place to hopefully get answers and as
I'm sure your you've noticed your lack
of a clear answer to a question I asked
you last night has generated a lot of
interest
I received reliable information that you
had a conversation about the special
counsel or his investigation with the
law firm that has represented President
Trump as you'll recall last night I
asked you whether you'd had such a
conversation and under oath you gave no
clear answer then today my Republican
colleagues raised the issue with you and
again you said you don't recall and that
you had no quote inappropriate
conversations with anyone at that law
firm which has led a lot of people to
believe that that was equivocal in terms
of a response so whether a conversation
was appropriate in your opinion is not a
clear answer to my question my colleague
senator Blumenthal again asked you and
you said you were quote pretty confident
the answer was no so frankly if if last
night you had just said no or an
absolute no even today I think this
could be put to rest but I will ask you
again and for the last time yes or no
have you ever been part of a
conversation with lawyers at the firm of
Kassovitz benson torres about special
counsel muller
or his investigation and i asked where
you ever part of a conversation I'm not
asking you what did you say right I'm
asking you were you a party to a
conversation that occurred regarding
special counsel Muller's investigation
and as simple yesterday no would suffice
about his investigation and are you
referring to a specific person I'm
referring to a specific subject and the
specific person I'm referring to is you
who was the conversation with you said
you had information that is not the
subject of the question sir
the sir the question is you and whether
you were part
of a conversation regarding special
counsel Muller's investigation the
answer's no thank you and it would have
been great if you could have said that
last why thank you
in my nevermind okay yesterday senator
senator Blumenthal asked if you could
recuse yourself in cases involving the
personal civil or criminal liability of
the president you declined to say that
you would so my question is could a
reasonable person question your
independence in cases involving the
president's civil or criminal liability
sorry can you repeat it would it be
reasonable for someone to question your
independence in cases involving the
president's civil or criminal liability
should that occur my independence I
believe has been demonstrated through my
12-year record and what you've heard
from the people who've worked with me
and I believe deeply in the Independence
of the judiciary I'd rule based on the
law and you can look at cases that I've
ruled against the when I became a judge
against the Bush administration and I've
talked about the history of our country
in the history of the Supreme Court and
on that point sir in particularly a
history of the Supreme Court in
confirmation hearings
Justice Kagan during her confirmation
hearing committed to recusing in cases
she handled as Solicitor General Justice
Breyer committed to recusing in cases
implicating his financial interest in
Lloyds of London
Justice Ginsburg refused to commit to
recusing in cases that were on her DC
Circuit recusal list
Justice Scalia committed at the hearing
to recuse in a case implicating an issue
that was the same as an issue he had
decided as a DC Circuit Judge so my
question to you is will you commit to
recusing in any case involving the civil
or criminal liability of the president
who appointed you the the Independence
of the judiciary requires that I not
commit to how I would decide a
particular case and to issue a
commitment on a discretionary recusal
issue in either direction so if I answer
that question in either direction that
would be a vile I would be violating my
judicial
independence in my view by committing as
a in this context I've explained but
with all due respect sir if if I shared
with you that other nominees sitting at
that desk or some desk like that have
committed to recusing there have been
circumstances where they have committed
so is it your opinion then that they
violated some ethical code or rule I
don't know all the circumstances but I
believe those were situations that were
required recusal x' where they had
previously had to recuse and were simply
indicating they're required recusal x'
but i don't know all the circumstances a
discretionary recusal is a commitment to
get a job or discretionary non recusal
as a commitment to get a job either
direction would be violating my
independence as a judge as a sitting
judge and as a nominee to the court okay
it is clear and willing at this point to
commit to a recusal so we can move on
one of your mentors justice kennedy
wrote landmark opinions in the area of
LGBTQ rights that have had a major
impact on the lives of many Americans
let's discuss one of those cases and
that's the obergefell case you know
berger feld as you know the court held
that same-sex couples have a right to
marry my question is whether the
obergefell case was correctly decided in
your opinion senator
Justice Kennedy wrote the majority
opinion in a series of five cases Romer
versus Evans if we can just talk about a
burger Phil that'd be great I want to
explain it I actually know that the
history leading up to a burger failed so
can you just please address your
comments to obergefell so I would like
to explain it if I can he wrote the
majority opinion in Romer versus Evans
Lawrence versus versus Texas United
States versus Windsor obergefell and
masterpiece cake shop concluding in
masterpiece cake shop importantly with a
statement if I could just read this no
please don't because I actually have
read it and I'm sure most have my
question is very specific can you
comment on your personal opinion on
whether obergefell was correctly decided
it's
yes or no please in masterpiece cake
shop and this is I think relevant to
your question Justice Kennedy wrote in
the majority opinion joined by Chief
Justice Roberts and Justice Alito and
Justice Gorsuch and Justice Breyer and
Justice Kagan the days of discriminating
against gay and lesbian Americans or
treating gay and lesbian Americans as
inferior and dignity and Worth are over
that is the press in the Supreme Court
agreed with by a sir I'm asking your
opinion
you're the nominee right now and so it
is probative of your ability to serve on
the highest court in our land so I'm
asking a very specific question either
you're willing to answer or not and if
you're not willing to answer it we can
move on but do you believe obergefell
twas correctly decided so each of the
justices have declined as a matter of
judicial independence each of them to
answer questions in that line of cases
you will not answer that following the
precedent set by those eight just as
they've all declined thank you when
asked to answer that question have
limited times of what it's important we
really like to move on all right
you've said that Brown the Board of
Education was one of the greatest
moments in the courts history do you
believe that obergefell was also one of
those moments I've said senator
consistent with what the nominees have
done that the the vast swath of modern
case law as Justice Kagan put it you
can't as a nominee in this seat give a
thumbs up or thumbs down that was that's
what Oh berger feld was one of the great
moments in the history of the Supreme
Court of the United States and for that
reason those nominees have declined to
comment on recent cases all great moment
is what I'm asking you not to comment on
the the legal analysis do you believe
that was a great moment in the history
of the court so the the Justice Kennedy
wrote the majority opinion saying the
days of treating gay and lesbian
Americans or gay and lesbian couples as
second-class citizens are inferior and
dignity and worth are over in the
Supreme Court that's
very important statement senator I agree
that's why I think you repeated it thank
you let's move on over the last several
months we have all witnessed the
inhumane and heartbreaking separation of
immigrant children from their families
by this administration despite a court
order requiring the administration to
reunite them over a month ago nearly 500
immigrant immigrant children are still
separated from their parents do you
believe that constitutional rights of
parents specifically fundamental due
process rights are implicated in such
family separations senator senator that
is a matter of pending litigation I
believe and as a sitting judge on the DC
Circuit or as a nominee
I of course can't comment have you
watched the coverage of any of these
cases on television or have you read
about the experiences those parents and
those children have had I have seen some
television in the 1889 Chinese Exclusion
case the Supreme Court permitted a ban
on Chinese people entering the United
States the court said Chinese people are
quote impossible to assimilate with our
people on end quote and said they were
immigrating in numbers quote approaching
an invasion this case has never been
explicitly overruled you've said you'd
be willing to talk about older cases so
can you tell me was the United States
Supreme Court correct in holding that
Chinese people could be banned from
entering our country senator the cases
in the 1890s as you know 1889 to be
specific okay in that era
reflects discriminatory attitudes by the
Supreme Court of course that's the air
also of Plessy versus Ferguson so would
you be willing to say that that was
incorrectly decided yeah Sarah I don't
want to opine on a case a particular
case without looking at it and and
studying about the discrimination are
you aware that that case has not been
overturned sir I know that with a number
of the cases like Korematsu let's look
let me use that as an example
discussed earlier but in this case in
particular were you aware that it had
not been over times whose center I
realized that there still cases in the
immigration context have you ever
written about any of those cases and
your thoughts about whether they should
be re-examined or potentially overturned
and sometimes obviously they should be
overturned well there is a swath of
cases have you talked about this case
ever I don't know I do not believe I'm
happy to be refreshed if you have
something that suggests I have no it's
actually a question okay and under the
Constitution judge do you believe that
Congress or the president can ban entry
into the United States on the basis of
race senator that it was the of course
one of the issues that was just in
litigation and there's still litigation
about the immigration laws and how
that's pending litigation so I think I
as a matter of Independence and
precedent well that's fine let's move on
in 2013
Texas passed a law that imposed new
restrictions on health care facilities
that provide abortions the effect was
that after the law was passed half those
facilities closed which severely limited
access to health care for the women of
Texas in 2016
whole women's health was decided where
in the Supreme Court invalidated the
Texas restrictions was whole woman's
health correctly decided yes or no and
we can keep it short and move on senator
consistent with the approach of nominee
wasn't the answer calling that nominee
precedent okay I'd like to ask you
another question which I believe you can
answer on you've said repeatedly that
Roe versus Wade is an important
precedent I'd like to understand what
that really means for the lives of women
we've had a lot of conversations about
how the discussion we're having in this
room will impact real people out there
and so my question is what in your
opinion is still unresolved for example
can a state prevent a woman from using
the most common or widely accepted
medical procedure to terminate her
pregnancy do you believe that that is
still an unresolved issue
I'm not asking how you would decide it
so I don't want to comment on
hypothetical cases roe v wade is an
important precedents been reaffirmed
many times so are you willing to say
that it would be unconstitutional for a
state to place such a restriction on
women row v Wade you can the precedent
of the Supreme Court was in Roe was
reaffirmed in Planned Parenthood versus
Casey of course and that's precedent on
press and then there are a lot of cases
Kavanaugh Issues An EPIC Response When Kamala Harris Disrespects His Pocket Constitution
applying the undue burden standard then
and those themselves are important
precedents and I had to apply them and
we've discussed that many times I've
actually had the benefit of sitting
through most of the hours of your
testimony over the last two days so I
know you've talked a lot about that can
Congress ban abortions nationwide after
20 weeks of pregnancy so that's would
require me to comment on potential
legislation that I understand and
therefore I shouldn't as a matter of
judicial independence following the
precedent of other nominees I'm gonna
ask you about unenumerated rights so you
gave a speech praising former justice
rehnquist dissent in Rhodes been much
discussion about that and you wrote
quote celebrating his success that
success in stemming the general tide of
freewheeling judicial creation of
unenumerated rights that is what you
said in celebration of justice rehnquist
so unenumerated rights is a phrase that
lawyers use but I want to make clear
what we're talking about it means rights
that are protected by the Constitution
even if they're not specifically
mentioned in the Constitution so they're
not in that book that you carry so what
we're talking about is the right to vote
that's an unenumerated right the right
to have children the right to control
the upbringing of your children the
right to refuse medical care the right
to love the partner of your choice the
right to marry and the right to have an
abortion now putting those unenumerated
rights in the context of the statement
you made which was to praise the
stemming of the general tide of
freewheeling creation of unenumerated
rights which
you were the interpretation there is you
were praising the the quest to end those
unenumerated rights my question to you
is which of the rights that I just
mentioned do you want to put an end to
or rollback three points I believe
senator first the Constitution it is in
the book that I carry the Constitution
protects unenumerated rights that's what
the Supreme Court has said but that does
not explicitly protect the rights that I
just listed and we both know that that's
right so that's point one point two is
Glucksberg the case you're referring to
a specifically cited Planned Parenthood
versus Casey as Authority in that case
so Casey reaffirmed Roe case he is cited
as Authority in glücksburg that's point
two and point three Justice Kagan when
she sat in this chair pointed repeatedly
to Glucksberg as the test for
recognizing unenumerated rights going
forward I in describing the precedent I
agree with her description of that at in
her hearing so thank you for that so
then let's put the rights that I
mentioned which are unenumerated in the
context of your praise of Justice
Rehnquist as having stemmed the general
tide of freewheeling judicial creation
of unenumerated rights arguably every
right that I mentioned on that list was
a judicially created unenumerated right
and my question then is when you praise
a jurist who attempted to end those
rights which rights in particular do you
believe are praiseworthy of ending right
so that was the test that was set forth
by the Supreme Court going forward for
recognition of additional unenumerated
rights that was relied cited as
Authority in that case Planned
Parenthood versus Casey which reaffirmed
roe we talk about the right to vote do
you believe that that falls in the
category of having been caught up in the
general tide of freewheeling judicial
creation
rated rights when what I was describing
with chief justice rehnquist and it was
a description of his career was in a
variety of areas and his role clear
reference was to unenumerated right and
in a number of areas I described five
different areas of his jurisprudence
where he'd helped the supreme court
achieve what I think has been a
common-sense middle-ground that has
stood the test of time in terms of
precedent in a variety of areas at least
that's how others have described it the
Glucksberg case as Justice Kagan
explained when she was in this chair is
the case that the Supreme Court has
relied on for forward-looking future
recognition of unenumerated rights if
you're not familiar with that I think
you're not going to address the specific
enumerated rights or are you because if
not we can move on I think I've
addressed it thank you senator
okay in 2011 you were a judge on one of
the challenges to the affordable care
act the court you sat upon held there
that you dissented on procedural grounds
on the the court which upheld the Act
one of your former law clerks described
your opinion in that case and that's the
seven sky case as quote a thorough
takedown of the individual mandate he
would go on to clerk for Supreme Court
Justice Kennedy that year or the next
year and the Supreme Court then held or
heard the challenge to the Affordable
Care Act and according to him your
opinion was quote a roadmap for the
dissenting justices the ones who would
have struck down the Affordable Care Act
giving you wrote the quote roadmap
according to your law clerk could one
reasonably conclude that you would have
voted to strike down the Affordable Care
Act had you been on the Supreme Court
couple points senator first I concluded
in one case I upheld the Affordable Care
Act against an origination clause
challenged in the case you're referring
to I did not reach the merits but I
discussed the merits Pro that were being
argued in both directions my opinions
been described as the road map for both
sides because I described both positions
and actually it wasn't a roadmap at all
because I we started as a takedown well
I speak for myself and my own opinions
speak for themselves and the Chairman
wants to close this questioning so we
can leave it with that all right judge
thank you
god bless you and God bless america